John Carroll University (JCU) is a private Jesuit university in University Heights, Ohio. Located in a suburb of Cleveland, it is primarily an undergraduate, liberal arts institution composed of a college of arts and sciences and business school. JCU has an enrollment of 3,650 students.[3] Founded in 1886 as St. Ignatius College, it was renamed in 1923 after John Carroll, the first Catholic bishop in the United States.

History

John Carroll University was founded in 1886 by the Society of Jesus under the title of St. Ignatius College, after Ignatius of Loyola, as a college for men. It has been in continuous operation as a degree-granting institution since that time. Founded as the 19th of 28 Jesuit colleges and universities in the United States, it is a member of the Association of Jesuit Colleges and Universities.[4]

In 1923, the college was renamed John Carroll University, honoring the first archbishop of the Catholic Church in the United States, who founded Georgetown University. In 1935, it was moved from its original location on the west side of Cleveland to its present site in University Heights, a suburb 10 miles (16 km) east of downtown Cleveland. However, the high school section retained the original name and continues to operate on the original site in Cleveland. The city of University Heights had been renamed from "Idlewood" during the construction of the campus.[5]

During World War II, John Carroll was one of 131 colleges and universities nationally that took part in the V-12 Navy College Training Program which offered students a path to a Navy commission.[6]

In September 1968, the university made the transition from full-time male enrollment to a fully coeducational institution, admitting women to the College of Arts and Sciences for the first time. In recent years, the university has undergone extensive reconstruction and expansion. In 2003, the university opened the $66 million, 265,000 sq ft (24,600 m2) Dolan Center for Science and Technology, named after alumnus Charles Dolan, founder of Cablevision and HBO, and his wife Helen Dolan. The couple met while attending John Carroll. In 2011, the university completed the removal of the Bohannon Science building and celebrated the Hamlin Quad enhancement project.
